# 2.1 C Character Set, Identifier, Keyword and Data Types

## 1. C Character Set
A character set defines the valid characters that can be used in a source program or interpreted
when a program is running. The set of characters that can be used to write a source program
is called a source character set, and the set of characters available when the program is being
executed is called an execution character set. It is possible that the source character set is
different from the execution character set, but in most of the implementations of C language,
the two character sets are identical.

The basic source character set of C language includes:
1. Letters:
 - a. Uppercase letters: A, B, C, …, Z
 - b. Lowercase letters: a, b, c, …, z
2. Digits: 0, 1, 2, …, 9
3. Special characters: , . : ; ! ” ^ # % ^ & * ( ) { } [ ] < > | \ / _ ~ etc.
4. White space characters:
 - a. Blank space character
 - b. Horizontal tab space character
 - c. Carriage return
 - d. New line character
 - e. Form feed character


## 2. Identifiers

An identifier refers to the name of an object. It can be a variable name, a label name,Â a function name,Â a typedef name,Â a macro nameÂ or a macro parameter, a tag or a member of a
structure, a union or an enumeration.Â
The syntactic rules to write an identifier name in C are as follows:
1. Identifier name in C can have letters, digits or underscores.
2. The first character of an identifier name must be a letter (either uppercase or lowercase)
or an underscore. The first character of an identifier name cannot be a digit.
3. No special character (except underscore), blank space and comma can be used in an
identifier name.
4. Keywords or reserved words cannot form a valid identifier name.
5. The maximum number of characters allowed in an identifier name is compiler dependent, but the limit imposed by all the compilers provides enough flexibility to create
meaningful identifier names.
<br>
The following identifier names are valid in C:
```c
Student_Name, StudentName, student_name, student1, _student
```


The following identifier names are not valid in C:
<br>
<code>
Student Name (due to blank space), Name&Rollno (due to special character &), 1st_student
(first character being a digit), for ( for being a keyword).
</code>

## 3. Keywords
Keyword is a reserved word that has a particular meaning in the programming language. The
meaning of a keyword is predefined. A keyword cannot be used as an identifier name in C
language. There are 32 keywords available in C. Table 1.1 gives a set of keywords present in
C language.
<br>


| #   | Keyword  | #   | Keyword | #   | Keyword  | #   | Keyword  |
| --- | -------- | --- | ------- | --- | -------- | --- | -------- |
| 1   | auto     | 9   | double  | 17  | int      | 25  | struct   |
| 2   | break    | 10  | else    | 18  | long     | 26  | switch   |
| 3   | case     | 11  | enum    | 19  | register | 27  | typedef  |
| 4   | char     | 12  | extern  | 20  | return   | 28  | union    |
| 5   | const    | 13  | float   | 21  | short    | 29  | unsigned |
| 6   | continue | 14  | for     | 22  | signed   | 30  | void     |
| 7   | default  | 15  | goto    | 23  | sizeof   | 31  | volatile |
| 8   | do       | 16  | if      | 24  | static   | 32  | while    |
