# 1.2 C Standards

The rapid expansion of C to various platforms led to many variations that were similar but
were often incompatible. This was a serious problem for programmers who wanted to develop
code that could run on several platforms. This problem led to the realization of the need for a
standard. This section lists the formulation of various C standards in the chronological order:

### 1.2.1 Kernighan & Ritchie (K&R) C Standard
The first edition of ‘The C Programming Language’ book by Brian Kernighan and Dennis
Ritchie was published in 1978. This book was one of the most successful computer science
books and has served as an informal standard for the C language for many years. This informal standard was known as ‘K&R C’.

### 1.2.2 ANSI C/Standard C/C89 Standard
In 1983, a technical committee was created under the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) committee to establish a standard specification of C. In 1989, the standard proposed
by the committee was formally approved and is often referred to as ANSI C, Standard C or
sometimes C89.

### 1.2.3 ISO C/C90 Standard
In 1990, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) adopted the ANSI C standard
after minor modifications. This version of the standard is called ISO C or sometimes C90.

### 1.2.4 C99 Standard
After the adoption of the ANSI standard, the C language specifications remained unchanged
for sometime, whereas the language C++ continued to evolve. To accommodate this evolution of C++, a new standard of C language that corrected some details of ANSI C standard and added more extensive support to it was introduced in 1995. The standard was published
in 1999 and is known as C99. The C99 standard has not been widely adopted and is not supported by many popular C compilers. 

### 1.2.5 C11 Standard
C11, published in 2011, is another major revision of the C standard. The C11 standard adds new features to C and the library and introduced features such as multi-threading support, anonymous structures and unions, and improved Unicode support.

It includes type generic macros, anonymous structures, improved Unicode support, atomic operations, multi-threading, and bounds-checked functions. It has an improved compatibility with C++.

### 1.2.6 C17 Standard
The C17 standard has been published in June 2018. C17 is the current standard for the C programming language. No new features have been introduced with this standard revision. It only performs certain technical corrections, and clarifications to defects in C11.

### 1.2.7 C18 Standard
The most recent version of the C standard, C18, was published in 2018. It includes minor revisions and bug fixes compared to C11.

### 1.2.8 C23 Standard
C23 is the informal name for the next major C language standard revision, expected to be published in 2024. 14 new keywords are expected to be introduced in this revision.